# 2023-05-14-Language Affects Thought - PEG AgainRiffing on the notions of "language affects thought", "a picture is worth a thousand words", etc.

I conjecture that purveyors of statically-typed, textual languages "see" structure "in their heads", but feel forced to pound the structure down for use with pointy sticks and clay tablets.

In Physics, I learned that to understand a seemingly-complicated problem required breaking the problem down ("divide and conquer") then creating a unique notation for that problem aspect (a different notation for each aspect) and to apply "simplifying assumptions" to the new notation to make the aspect-under-scrutiny seem less complicated.  While, of course, remaining cognizant of the simplifying assumptions and remaining cognizant of not using the notation beyond its sweet spot.

I think that software development is like that, too.  You drill down on a particular aspect of a problem, ignoring the rest.  When you come up for air, you see other aspects that need to be solved.  All popular programming languages are the same and force you to think inside the same kind of box.  Simpler solutions to a problem might not be apparent, nor seem very simple from inside the single box.

We fundamentally want the freedom to think - to solve a problem instead of force-fitting the problem for expression within the confines of a single given notation or a single style of thought.

General purpose programming languages are woefully inadequate for expressing specific solutions when compared to languages designed expressly for the purpose of expressing a single, specific solution (SCNs (my word) are even more specific than DSLs).  We haven't bothered to design multiple SCNs, nor multiple DSLs, because of the "it's difficult to design languages" meme which has handcuffed us for several decades.  This meme has been promulgated by the SCN called CFGs (Context Free Grammars) which was designed to express a very specific problem - that of formalizing language theory.  We have continued to use that specific SCN and have lathered towers of epicycles upon it in the hopes that that meme could be reused in a general purpose manner and that this would free us from having to think.  The arrival of PEG technology has shown us that it has always been possible to think outside of that box.  I believe that PEG is not a notation for expressing Languages, but, is a notation for expressing Parsers.  PEG just happens to look a lot like CFG-based approaches and is easily confused with CFG technologies.

PEG enables expressing something that can't be expressed in CFGs - the ability to recognize matched pairs of brackets, recursively.  This very subtle difference opens up the field of programming language design in ways that can't even be thought of in CFG-based thinking patterns, e.g. nested comments, nested strings, the ability to compose grammar snippets in pipelines, the ability to embed spaces in identifiers, the ability to invent and implement new syntaxes in minutes, etc.
