# 2023-07-08-ClosuresHere is a piece of code from https://woodrush.github.io/blog/lambdalisp.html

```
(defun new-counter (init)
  ;; Return a closure.
  ;; Use the let over lambda technique for creating independent and persistent variables.
  (let ((i init))
    (lambda () (setq i (+ 1 i)))))

;; Instantiate counters
(setq counter1 (new-counter 0))
(setq counter2 (new-counter 10))

(print (counter1)) ;; => 1
(print (counter1)) ;; => 2
(print (counter2)) ;; => 11
(print (counter1)) ;; => 3
(print (counter2)) ;; => 12
(print (counter1)) ;; => 4
(print (counter1)) ;; => 5
```

This code implements a *closure* which can be thought of as a 1-method *object*.

The function *new-object* returns a function (lambda).  In the process, it creates a *closure* which contains 2 slots - one called *i* and the other being an unnamed lambda.  The slot *i* is not exported and can only be accessed by the lambda.  The *lambda* is returned as the value of of the function *new-counter*.

So, the value of *counter1* is a function, and the value of *counter2* is another function.  The functions are distinct from one another - the *counter1* function has access to its own version of the slot *i* and the *counter2* function has a access to its own version of a different slot (which, incidentally has the same name *i*).

When you call the *counter1* function, it will affect its own slot.  When you call the *counter2* function, it will affect its own slot.  The two functions don't interact, so the slots can contain completely different data.

---

Let's consider the pertinent bits of code...

This is the closure-producing function called *new-counter*:

```
(defun new-counter (init)
  ;; Return a closure.
  ;; Use the let over lambda technique for creating independent and persistent variables.
  (let ((i init))
    (lambda () (setq i (+ 1 i)))))
```

Here are two calls to the *new-counter* function.

```
(setq counter1 (new-counter 0))
(setq counter2 (new-counter 10))
```

*Counter1* and *counter2* now contain closures.  Nothing else has happened yet.  The closures were created and assigned to the variables *counter1* and *counter2*.

!
## 2023-07-08-Closures 2023-07-08 07.51.32.excalidraw

---

excalidraw-plugin: parsed
tags: [excalidraw]

---
==⚠  Switch to EXCALIDRAW VIEW in the MORE OPTIONS menu of this document. ⚠==


# Text Elements
i ^NSsvJKHW

λ ^wwzKWteF

(let ((i init)) ^codw8pfV

(lambda () (setq i (+ 1 i))))) ^TxQIdSrV

(setq counter1 (new-counter 0)) ^MxsiinG2

0 ^acJzzpRO

i ^iic2TyMp

λ ^rTSMpyEP

(lambda () (setq i (+ 1 i))))) ^Vez89dwj

0 ^jsrihFa9

λ ^ySLUuJQI

counter1 ^qt5fLGTN



The expanded form of the closure is shown as a rectangle containing two slots, *i* and a lambda function.

The closure-creating function, *new-counter* takes one argument.  It stuffs the value of that argument into a private variable which is called *i*.  Then, the closure-creating function creates a lambda function and returns it its the value.  Nothing further happens, since the lambda function has not yet been called.

I am using a shorthand to represent the returned closure.  The shorthand is a dotted circle with one input port.  The dotted circle contains the single letter `λ` to remind me that the closure can be called in the same way that any function can be called.

---

Now, let's see what happens when the function contained in the variable *closure1* gets called twice.

There are 3 steps in this process
1. We call the closure.
2. We run the lambda function contained in the closure.
3. We return the result of the lambda functions.

Note that the result of *setq* is the value of its RHS expression, i.e. `(+ 1 i)`.

The first time around, the *setq* mutates the slot it calls *i* to be 1+ whatever is already in the slot.  

The closure changes itself and returns 1+0, i.e. 1.

The value of *counter1* doesn't change.  *Counter1* still holds the closure containing its own, private variable.

!
## 2023-07-08-Closures 2023-07-08 08.17.06.excalidraw

---

excalidraw-plugin: parsed
tags: [excalidraw]

---
==⚠  Switch to EXCALIDRAW VIEW in the MORE OPTIONS menu of this document. ⚠==


# Text Elements
(counter1) ^3BIHGsBz

1. CALL ^tXkYImx4

2. (setq i (+ 1 i)) ^tNgkywOM

0 ^0dnFeZvh

λ ^K1bXOsId

(lambda () (setq i (+ 1 i))))) ^n7S4BT1D

3. RETURN 1 ^nYxhdLqV

λ ^Mk27qN6Z

1 ^1Mnj3TCV

λ ^WMpGH72v

(lambda () (setq i (+ 1 i))))) ^4QTOMhd8

call counter1 the first time ^kPAyOpTz



The second time around, the closure changes itself and returns 1+1, i.e. 2.

!
## 2023-07-08-Closures 2023-07-08 08.14.18.excalidraw

---

excalidraw-plugin: parsed
tags: [excalidraw]

---
==⚠  Switch to EXCALIDRAW VIEW in the MORE OPTIONS menu of this document. ⚠==


# Text Elements
(counter1) ^hhUvcoTH

1. CALL ^TR2pIQYn

2. (setq i (+ 1 i)) ^WlRpjUJg

1 ^JDW1xMkS

λ ^EBkvv5vm

(lambda () (setq i (+ 1 i))))) ^BXWikSif

3. RETURN 2 ^EjAek19T

λ ^PVKviGYX

2 ^AibEo5QW

λ ^0HBKPXbe

(lambda () (setq i (+ 1 i))))) ^Rv2iHgZq

call counter1 the second time ^cQFEigLW

