# 2023-06-11-Fork1. Fork-ing is specialization.
2. Forking is easier using Composition instead of Inheritance
3. Composition is easier if you use black boxes, then shuffle the black boxes around and re-wire them
4. Black boxes are things with 
	- a very well-defined Input API
	- a very well-defined Output API
	- a guarantee that nothing leaks in or out of the black box except through the above input and output APIs, i.e. no data leakage, and, no control flow leakage

What's inside the black boxes?  We can't know.  We can't care.

How do you create black boxes?  

(A) Black boxes can be composed of wirings of other black boxes.

There are 4 combinations of wiring:
- child outputs to child inputs
- self inputs to child inputs
- child outputs to self outputs
- self inputs to self outputs

(B) Black boxes can be created, that are not composed of other Black Boxes.

Black boxes of kind (A) are little networks ("Containers" in my vocabulary).  Black boxes of kind (B) contain code written in any common programming language ("Leaves" in my vocabulary).

How do common programming languages violate these concepts?
- no output APIs
- too many details, 
- all layers collapsed down to 1 honking, big layer
- no control over time-related issues is allowed, IOW, strict adherence to a single, hard-wired pattern (Sequentialism), IOW, control-flow cannot be controlled easily, IOW control-flow is fixed to a single pattern
- too many details ==> not very black boxy
- over-specification of details encouraged by static type checking
- premature optimization encouraged by static type checking and a single-dimensional understanding of the meaning of "efficiency"
- compensation for lack of output API via kludges, e.g. dependency injection, DLLs, etc.
- compensation for lack of control of control flow using kludges, e.g. "state variables" and inappropriate use of conditional evaluation, e.g. `if-then-else` using state, instead of `if-then-else` geared only towards conditional evaluation of function values, e.g. McCarthy's original `COND`, IOW, state is not bad, but, kludgy use of state to work around lack of control of control-flow is bad, and, e.g. multi-tasking and time-sharing
- attempts to ignore time. Huh? But, but, electronic machines - aka computers - have propagation delays.  Period.  Ignoring time ignores their computer-ness and relegates them to a single purpose: fancy calculators.
- attempts to ignore control flow
- big programs are built using big code, instead of lots of small layers, IOW, functions and closures are kludgy compensations for lack of layering, corollary: fork-ing is a way to keep code small while tuning its purpose, IOW, generalization is bad, specialization is good
- reliance on CALL/RET instructions to implement functions, yet, CALL/RET instructions were not originally created with functions in mind
- Generalization.  Generalization is bad, specialization is good.  Fork-ing is specialization.  General purpose languages are, well, generalizations.
- single-dimensional understanding of what "correctness" is, i.e. Correctness is assumed to be from Programmers' perspective only, without consideration for Correctness from End-Users' perspective, IOW, End-User Correctness is usually pushed off to the side as a loosey-goosey concept called Requirements, and, generally ignored
- Straw-man arguments about issues that are essentially ignored, like badness-of-state, badness-of-control-flow, badness-of-side-effects, etc.  All of these things are essential to computer-ness, but, are pushed aside and are forbidden to be thought about.
- GOTO is baaack, with a new politically-correct name: `CPS`

## See Also
https://kinopio.club/little-languages-qR324zwZ6Kvh390StgXMF
