# 2023-06-02-Edges vs. Functional NotationIn electronics, there is the concept of "edge".  Imagine a square wave.  It is zero (0) then snaps upwards to a one (1) and then back to zero.

This square wave has two (2) edges - the *leading edge* and the *trailing edge*.  

In electronics, edges are often put to good use.

An edge is even smaller than a Boolean.  An edge carries no data.  An edge exists, or doesn't exist.

At the moment, I don't think that functions can (easily) represent edges in time, but, am willing to believe that I am locked in one way of thinking and am willing to change my mind.  

Functions are based on the notion that Time doesn't matter.  An Edge happens in the dimension of Time.  To discuss such a thing using functions, you need to invent epicycles like timestamps.  Or maybe coroutines.  Or maybe CPS ("GOTO" rebranded).

A simple example: a line buffer component.  You send it a character.  Nothing happens.  You keep sending it characters and nothing happens.  You send it a newline, and it finally outputs a string containing all of the characters that were sent previously.  The output of the line buffer component can be used as (1) data and/or (2) an edge.  Both.  This can be done with functions, but, I find it to be more natural ("easier to reason about") when written as a small pipeline of 0D components.  

Functions are great for one purpose.

The notion of functions can be stretched beyond its sweet spot, though.  This stretching causes wasted brain power (something like 50+ years and counting, or time wasted tweaking the notation) which could be used for other purposes, like solving end-user problems, instead of technical problems with the notation.
